#summary Character decomposition guidelines.
#labels Phase-Design

= Introduction =

Decomposing a Han character will give a tree of component characters. These components can have components themselves.

It is obvious that decomposition data should be valid and complete, but it is difficult to define what makes such a decomposition valid. There are several ways to look at character decomposition and this probably influences the way we think about correctness.

This page shall offer questions and hints to help realize what decomposition needs to achieve. Log in and help contribute to guidelines! It's ok, if you don't keep it as clean as it is now :)

= Details =

Where is character decomposition needed?
  * Lookup, aka. multi-radical search ([http://jisho.org/kanji/radicals/ example])
  * Visualisation, learn character by components ([http://www.yellowbridge.com/chinese/character-etymology.php?searchChinese=1&zi=或 example])
  * Phonetic analysis, collect information about phonetic components
  * Model generation, generate handwriting models from components ([http://cburgmer.nfshost.com/content/bootstrapping-tegaki-handwriting-models-using-character-decomposition example])

What kind of different decomposition can exist?
  * Visual decomposition, including all well-known characters
  * Ethymological decomposition, use the actual components as used in history
  * Including Kangxi radical (might not generally overlap with visual and ethymological)

What else needs to be considered?
  * Can non-Han characters serve as components? If not, why?
  * Are in-frequent characters outside the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_Multilingual_Plane#Basic_Multilingual_Plane BMP] useful?
  * What to do with frequent components that didn't get encoded with Unicode?
  * What about component structures not recognized by Unicode (IDS), e.g. 众?